W-16993325-pce4-documentation-kt (#344)
mulesoft/docs-private-cloud: modules/ROOT/pages/install-checklist.adoc

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-aliases: prereq-workflow.adoc, prereq-platform.adoc, prereq-hardware.adoc, prereq-software.adoc, prereq-network.adoc

You can install Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition (Anypoint Platform PCE) version 4.0 and later in the Kubernetes (K8s) cluster that you provision and manage.

MuleSoft performed installations on popular K8s providers, which are listed in the following sections. The hardware and software requirements for installing Anypoint Platform PCE on your chosen provider are dictated by that provider, unless otherwise specified in this document. 

> Before you begin, make sure your organization’s operations, networking, and security teams review the listed infrastructure prerequisites. These include the K8s cluster, hardware, software, networking, NFS storage, container registry, installer node, and storage requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you begin, ensure your organization’s operations, networking, and security teams review the listed infrastructure prerequisites. These include the K8s cluster, hardware, software, networking, NFS storage, container registry, installer node, and storage requirements.
```

[NOTE]
==== 
You must contact MuleSoft Professional Services prior to installing Anypoint Platform PCE, as they are involved with your installation.

Installing Anypoint Platform PCE requires specific versions of operating systems, NFS, and other software. Most issues experienced with Anypoint Platform PCE occur because the required environment was not set up prior to installing or upgrading. 
====

== Kubernetes Cluster Requirements

These are the requirements:

* Kubernetes (K8s) version 1.29 or 1.30.

* Kubernetes providers: +

>     ** Rancher Kubernetes Engine (RKE2) versions 1.29 and 1.30.
>     ** RedHat OpenShift versions 4.15 and 4.16.
>     ** Amazon EKS Anywhere (EKS-A) 0.18 (K8s version 1.28)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ** Rancher Kubernetes Engine (RKE2) versions 1.29 and 1.30
    ** RedHat OpenShift versions 4.15 and 4.16
    ** Amazon EKS Anywhere (EKS-A) 0.18 (K8s version 1.28)
```

* Cluster configurations: +

> ** Have a dedicated control plane node within the K8s cluster. Preferably, 3 or 5 nodes must be allocated for the K8s control planes. For example, only K8s management workload run on these nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Have a dedicated control plane node within the K8s cluster. Preferably, allocate 3 or 5 nodes for the K8s control planes. For example, only K8s management workload runs on these nodes.
```

|TCP | 8472 | Overlay VXLAN network |Anypoint Platform PCE nodes | Anypoint Platform PCE nodes
|TCP | 30080 | HTTP public access |Load balancer  | Anypoint Platform PCE nodes
|TCP | 30443| HTTP public access |Load balancer  | Anypoint Platform PCE nodes
|TCP | 30889| Mule Runtime Websocket |Load balancer  | Anypoint Platform PCE nodes
|TCP | 30883| Mule Runtime Authentication Service (for certificate renewals) |Load balancer  | Anypoint Platform PCE nodes
|===

For more information, see the provider specific requirements:

* https://docs.rke2.io/install/requirements#operating-systems[Rancher Kubernetes Engine (RKE2) - Networking]
* https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/networking/understanding-networking.html[RedHat OpenShift - Networking]
* https://anywhere.eks.amazonaws.com/docs/clustermgmt/networking/networking-and-security/[Amazon EKS Anywhere (EKS-A) - Networking]

== NFS Storage Requirements

See xref:verify-nfs.adoc[]

== Container Registry Requirements

These are the requirements:

* Must be secured over TLS.
* Must be accessible from installer nodes and Kubernetes clusters.

> * Must be secured with either username and password orcCertificate based authentication. Ensure that the new or updated certificates are distributed to all nodes to facilitate uninterrupted TLS communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Must be secured with either username and password or Certificate based authentication. Ensure that the new or updated certificates are distributed to all nodes to facilitate uninterrupted TLS communication.
```

== Installer Node Requirements

These are the requirements:

* Operating system: RHEL, Ubuntu or any Linux based systems.
* Storage required minimum 100GB.
* Access to Kubernetes cluster using kubeconfig.yaml
    ** The cluster needs `cluster:admin` access, as Anypoint Platform PCE installer needs to create resources of different types.
    ** The cluster needs `read/write` access in the default namespace to run Anypoint Platform PCE installer jobs and other supporting services.

> * Access and connectivity to private container registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Operating system: RHEL, Ubuntu or any Linux based systems.
* Storage required minimum 100GB.
* Access to Kubernetes cluster using kubeconfig.yaml.
    ** The cluster needs `cluster:admin` access, as Anypoint Platform PCE installer needs to create resources of different types.
    ** The cluster needs `read/write` access in the default namespace to run Anypoint Platform PCE installer jobs and other supporting services.
* Access and connectivity to private container registry.
```

== Storage Requirements

These are the requirements:

In Anypoint Platform PCE version 4.0 and later, all the persistent data is stored in the Persistent Volume Claims (PVCs). Kubernetes Storage Class commands the PVCs. Currently there are two services that require PVCs:

* Object Store - S3, such as object store service
* Stolon - PostgressSQL database

> The storage class for the previous services can be the same. Depending on the type of underlying infrastructure or storage solution you choose, the storage class configuration can vary.

Reviewer: I do not understand the requirement here. What must the user do/install? Do they need to configure a PVC? Is there any way to clarify this?
